Hello and welcome to this lecture and then this lecture will go ahead and create a simple flex box and
see how elements are actually going to be laid out in a flex box.
So before learning about flex box so creating a flex box.
Let's first go ahead and understand how developments are actually placed in a normal container.
So in the in the previous lecture you have actually learned about Glass and how they can be used to
basically separate have separate sections on a web page.
So let's not go ahead and create a div class over here.
So let's name this class as let's say container.
And what we will do is that we'll go ahead and place some items or elements into this div.
So those actually become the developments.
So what I'll do here is that I simply go ahead and create some classes over here.
So let's say we have you your here.
So let's see this is our first development.
Let's create another one.
Class this is going to be let's say B and let's have the third one and let's call it a seat.
So the Class C.
So once we have these three elements let's actually go ahead and give it some kind of styling so that
we should be able to see those elements on our Web page.
So what we are doing here is that we are basically having a look at how exactly these developments are
going to look like when you place them in a container.
So let's go ahead and style these elements up.
So let's tile them individually and let's give them different colors.
So we'll type in let's say the minimum of this is going to be 150 pixels and let's say the height is
going to be 150 pixels as well.
And what I will do here is that I'll copy the same property for all the three boxes over here.
So this is going to be B and this one is going to be c..
So we are essentially having some boxes over here.
And in order to identify these boxes what we really do is that we will have a different background color
for each one of them.
So the background color for this one is going to be let's say blue let's say the Baggott on Carlo for
this one is going to be the red background color is red.
And let's say the background color for the final one is going to be green.
So the background color for this is going to be green.
OK.
So now once we have them let's actually go ahead and see how these elements are going to look like in
this container.
So if you go back over here hit refresh as you could see this is how the elements are actually stacked.
So you have specified the minimum with 150 but I think we have zoomed in over here.
So let me just zoom out a little bit.
And as you could see as we have the elements stacked up over here these are actually going to be displayed
like that.
And this is actually because we are using a normal container.
So now let's learn what happens when we actually use a flex container.
So in order to make any container or flex what we have to do is that we have to simply go ahead and
you have to set the property for that container.
So if you want to set the property for the container we use that last select of container.
So not container.
And that's actually going to have a simple property which is display.
And we said this display property to flex and where you want to use a flex container or flex box.
So when we do that and when we go back we're here and now if we hit refresh as you could see now you
can see that all those elements are actually now placed in this particular fashion.
That is they are not any longer stacked on top of each other and said they are actually placed right
next to each other.
Now if you want to see where exactly the container is you can simply go ahead and you can give the container
a particular color.
So let's just give this a yellow color.
So what I will do here is that I just type in background color and I'll just assign it to your local
low.
So now you'll be able to see exactly the kind in place.
So if we hit refresh as it could see this thing is our entire container and these items actually arranged
into that container side by side.
Now what do you still want to make it stack on top of each other from top to bottom and sort of stacking
it like that.
One way is that you can go ahead and you can change the display type of this thing by simply removing
it all.
Either way is that you can use a property which is called less flex direction.
So as I mentioned the flex actually has two axis.
The main axis on the cross axis.
So right now by default the main axis which we have is actually going to be the rule.
So the elements are going to be stacked in a row.
But when you do find the axes to be a column those elements are now going to be stacked top to bottom.
So let's go ahead and add a Flagstad action proper to here.
So Flex direction and now if we said to do column let's see what exactly happens.
So then we go back over here hit refresh as it could see now the elements are going to be arranged in
a top to bottom fashion.
Now the reason why the elements actually spanning the entire thing is because we have set the minimum
property for them.
So if you actually to replace this minimum weight with let's say just with it's actually going to stop
spending the entire space.
So now if we go back over here and hit refresh as you could see this thing is not going to spend the
entire space available to it what minimum means is that at least we should have a word which is these
many pixels and it can extend as long as that container actually allows it to do.
And that's why this actually is going to spend the entire world.
Now let's do one thing over here.
Let's actually get back to our code and change the flex direction.
So by default when you don't specify any flex selection the direction is going to be wrong.
And that's why the elements are going to be arranged in this fashion.
So that's how you can actually make a simple flex container which we have made right here.
So the simple method of making a flex container is that you simply make a of here and while styling
the drive glass in CSSA you simply use display property here and set it to flex.
And that's going to make your container of like Xbox.
So that's it for this lecture.
And in the next one we're actually going to learn about like glue and flex shrink.
So thank you very much for watching and I'll see you guys next time.
Thank you.